Dorothy
Abel Tic Tac Toe bonus, more exposure, Phoenix

End of 101, preparing for the written. 

Code analysis.  Practice describing code with the level of precision and accuracy that LS is expecting. 

After that, grab one of the Easy exercises, pull up a problem she used.

Walk through PEDAC, break down problem solving steps.  

Code snippets:
After running this code what will the object referenced by the variable `names` be?

```Ruby
#first
def add_name(arr, name)
  arr = arr + [name]
end

names = ['bob', 'kim']
add_name(names, 'jim')
puts names
```
On line 6 we initialize 
line 7 invoke add name method
string object jium
2-4 define method add_name , inside method defition reassign return value of array plus name as an array. When we pass in the array bob andk kim and the string object jum we are assigning to the method array object bob and kim and thne adding jum as a string object
method local varaigle gets reassigned in the method and not mutated

What concept is being demonstrated by this code?  

This would be pass by value or demonstrate pass by value where in Ruby , if it doesn't mutate the object that method words with passing the value.  Adding or concatenating arrays it returns a new array not mutating the original.  The  `=` is reassiging which is not mutating the original object.

Object passing. Although it's a little bit more about immutability.  I could write this method in a different where it would mutate the array passed in.  Reassignment is not mutating.  Knowing that concatenating arrays is not mutating.  If we used a mutating method.  The `<<` is a mutating.  Pushes `jim` into arrary.  With arrays and any mutable object and be clear on which methods are mutating and which are not.

What will be output by this method and what will the return value be?

```Ruby
arr = [1, 2, 3]

arr.each { |n| puts n }
1
2
3
=> [1, 2, 3]
```
The `each` returns the original calling object and would return an array with `[1, 2, 3]`.

What if we change the method to `map`?

```Ruby
arr = [1, 2, 3]

p arr.map { |n| puts n }
# 1
# 2
# 3
# => [nil, nil, nil]
```



```Ruby
def fix(value)
  value = value.upcase # => HELLO - broken chain no longer linked
  value.concat('!') # => HELLO!
end

s = 'hello'
t = fix(s)

def fix(value)
  value = value.upcase #=> HELLO
  value.concat('!') # => HELLO!
end

s = 'hello'  # => 'hello'
t = fix(s) # => HELLO! # acts like pass by value

p s
p t

animal = "dog"

loop do |animal|
  animal = "cat"
  break
end

puts animal
```
On line 1, local variable `animal`  is assigned to string object `'dog'`
animal is assigned to `'cat'`
line 8 assigned 

It is `dog'`. 

```Ruby
animal = 'dog'

loop do |x|
  animal = "cat"
  break
end

puts animal
```
This is a tricky weird thing about Ruby.  Usually 
If this block parameter has the same name as an outer block parameter.  We have this block parameter `animal` 


What does this return?

```Ruby
def test
  puts "written assessment"
end
 
var = test # => written assessment

if var 
  puts "written assessment"
else # => `nil` is falsy, so executed
  puts "interview"
end

=begin
Given the triangle of consecutive odd numbers:
            1
         3     5    
      7     9    11   
  13    15    17    19  
21    23    25    27    29 
Calculate the sum of the numbers in the nth row of this triangle. e.g. (Input --> Output)

1 -->  1
2 --> 3 + 5 = 8

Input: Integer (that is the index location of array)
Output: Integer (sum of array)
Examples/Rules:


Algorithm:
1. Given a number to represent the row of the triangle of consecutive odd numbers
2. build a nested array where each element of the outer array is an array of the elements, representing each progressive row of the triangle.
  - starting number to represent the initial integer of the triangle
  - triangle_array = []
  - tracking_index = 1
  - iterating through until the size of the current array is == n?
    - set a new empty array
  - push into an empty array the current number until the empty_array size is current element index + 1.
    - iterate the starting number by two
    - iterate the index by 1
3. return the sum of the nth row of integers.
4. return the sum of the last element in the outer array

Steps:
Helper Methods: (as needed)
We 

Trisha every nth row has n number of integers
if had the first integer of each row
used arrays
=end

def triangle(n)
  tri_array = []
  row_num = 1
  loop do
    current_row = []
    until current_row.size > tri_array.size
      current_row << row_num
      row_num += 2
      end
      tri_array << current_row
    break tri_array.last.sum if tri_array.size == n
  end
end
```

We know we can get the last element, have n as 5, we want to get the sum of the last five elements,  add 2 until we get to the last element, current number subtracts two.  Get to the last row, then add the previous numbers to this element.

How do I know how many times to add 2?  Know by looking at the number of elements in each row.  Row 3 has 3 elements 2 + 2 + 2

```Ruby

def triangle(n)
  start = 1
  num_add = 4

  (n-1).times do
    start += num_add
    num_add += 2
  end

  sum = start
  2.upto(n) do
    start -= 2
    sum += start
  end
  sum
end

def triangle(num_rows)
  odd_num = 1
  2.upto(num_rows) do |num_elements_in_row|
    odd_num += (2*num_elements_in_row)
  end

  sum = odd_num
  2.upto(num_rows) do 
    odd_num -= 2
    sum += odd_num
  end
  sum
end



```