```Ruby

=begin

https://launchschool.com/exercises/02350925

Create a method that takes two integers as arguments. The first argument is a count, and the second is the first number of a sequence that your method will create. The method should return an Array that contains the same number of elements as the count argument, while the values of each element will be multiples of the starting number.

You may assume that the count argument will always have a value of 0 or greater, while the starting number can be any integer value. If the count is 0, an empty list should be returned.

P: input: integer - count
output: integer - starting number, elements will be multiples of this number

goal: method should return an array that contains the same number of elements as the count argument (argument number 1), ie 5 would result in 5 elements in the resulting array.  The second argument would determine the incremental value of the subsequent elements.  ie 1 would result in 1 + 1 + 1 

E: 1st argument 5 --> [x, x, x, x, x] -> 5 elements
   2nd argument 1 --> [1, 2, 3, 4, 5] -> 1 + 1 = 2, which is the second element

   1st argument 6 --> [x, x, x, x, x, x]
   2nd argument 2 --> [2, 4, 6, 8, 10, 12]

D: integers -> array

A: initialize empty array
use 1st argument to create an array length of n numbers
  - each element is a multiple of the 2nd integer argument
push elements into an array, with a condition that measures the size of the array, until we have hit the 1st argument's number
return the new array of elements


# initialize array that's already that number of elements and iterate over it with map method and replace elements of the multiplication of the second number
# 4 element array, multiplying by index value + 1

Examples:
=end

def sequence(count, multiple_int)
  array = []
  multiple_count = 1
  until array.length == count
    array << multiple_int * multiple_count
    multiple_count += 1
  end
  array
end

  p sequence(5, 1) == [1, 2, 3, 4, 5]
  p sequence(4, -7) == [-7, -14, -21, -28]
  p sequence(3, 0) == [0, 0, 0]
  p sequence(0, 1000000) == []

=begin
GIVEN two integers (a size of the array and an initial number)
SET an empty result Array
SET a integer variable to 1 to multiply the initial number
UNTIL the results array is equal to the size variable
  push into the array the initial number times the multiply numbers
  add one to the multipply number
return array
=end

=begin
https://www.codewars.com/kata/55b2549a781b5336c0000103

You certainly can tell which is the larger number between 2^10 and 2^15.

But what about, say, 2^10 and 3^10? You know this one too.

Things tend to get a bit more complicated with both different bases and exponents: which is larger between 3^9 and 5^6?

Well, by now you have surely guessed that you have to build a function to compare powers, returning -1 if the first member is larger, 0 if they are equal, 1 otherwise; powers to compare will be provided in the [base, exponent] format:


Problem
Given 2 two element arrays with 0index representing the base and 1 index representing the exponent. Get the result of raising the base to the exponent for each array argument and compare the two, returning -1 if the first argument result is lower than the second, 1 if vice versa and 0 if the results are the same.
Rules:
implitic: Arrays will only have two elements
          Elements will be integers


Data Types
input: 2 (two element) arrays
middle: two integers representing the exponent results
output: integer (-1, 0, or 1)

Algorithm
us the arrays to get the results of raising the first index elements to the second index elements powers then compare the two values

Given two arrays
SET 1st result to the return of raising element 0 to element 1
SET 2nd result to the resturn for second array
Compare the two

=end

def compare_powers(array1, array2)
  result1 = array1[0] ** array1[1]
  result2 = array2[0] ** array2[1]
  result2 <=> result1
end

def compare_powers(n1, n2)
  n2[1]*Math.log(n2[0]) <=> n1[1]*Math.log(n1[0])
end

p compare_powers([2,10],[2,15]) ==1
p compare_powers([2,10],[3,10]) ==1
p compare_powers([2,10],[2,10]) ==0
p compare_powers([3,9],[5,6]) ==-1
p compare_powers([7,7],[5,8]) ==-1

# Only positive integers will be tested, including bigger numbers - you are warned now, so be diligent try to implement an efficient solution not to drain too much on CW resources ;)!