```Ruby

# Whsat is output on line 10 and why. What concept does this demonstrate.
def a_method(str)
  str = str + 'world'
end
  
a = 'hello'

a_method(a)

p a

=begin
On line 6, local variable `a` is initialized to string object `'hello'`. On line 8, variable `a` is passed to the `a_method` method as the argument.  Walking through the `a_method` method  on lines 2 to 4, the argument `'hello'` is assigned to local variable `str`. On line 3, the variable `str` is assigned to the return of concenating the string object represented by the local variable `str` with the string object `'world'`. So this a non-mutating action.  The connection between the argument and the return value is broken by the reassignment of `str`. So when we print `a` on line 10, we will output `'hello'`.
=end

https://fine-ocean-68c.notion.site/RB109-Written-Questions-From-Christian-Larwood-s-Blog-91bcc598a24d4ad6aadad86802e7412b

# What is output and why. What concept does this demonstrate
odd, even = [1, 2, 3].partition do |num|
  num.odd?
end


p odd
p even

#We are initializing the local variable `odd` to the first element of the array returned by `partition` and the local variable `even` to the second element of the array returned by `partition`. We invoke `partition` on an array and pass in each integer into the block on lines 4-6. We create a partition of elements based on the return value of the block, which returns a truthy value when the integer referenced by `num` is odd. Thus, `p odd` otuputs the array `[1,3]` and `p even` outputs the array `[2]`. This demonstrates the concept of parallel assignment. 

# https://fine-ocean-68c.notion.site/RB109-Written-Questions-From-Christian-Larwood-s-Blog-91bcc598a24d4ad6aadad86802e7412b

# What is output and why. What concept does this demonstrate
party = [1, 2, 3].partition do |num|
  num.odd?
end
all_friends = ["Amy", "Patricia"]
true_friends, false_friends = all_friends.partition do |name|
  false
end 

all_friends = ["Amy", "Bobby", "Charlie", "Patricia"]
true_friends, false_friends = all_friends.partition do |name|
  name.size <= 5 
end 

[["Amy", "Bobby"], ["Charlie", "Patricia"]]

# https://fine-ocean-68c.notion.site/RB109-Written-Questions-From-Christian-Larwood-s-Blog-91bcc598a24d4ad6aadad86802e7412b

# What is output and why. What concept does this demonstrate

all_friends = ["Amy", "Bobby", "Charlie", "Patricia"]
true_friends, false_friends = all_friends.partition do |name|
  name.size <= 5 
end 
p true_friends, false_friends
#=> [["Amy", "Bobby"], ["Charlie", "Patricia"]]
=begin
On line 6 `true_friends` and `false_friends` are initialized to the return value of invoking the method `partition` on the array object referenced by the variable `all_friends`.  The method `partition` will evaluate for truthiness based on the return value of the block passed to it, which in this case is passed the local variable argument `name`.  The return value evaluates to true when the `size` method is invoked on name returning an integer.  In this case `'Amy'` and `'Bobby'` will be placed into the first array and will be returned when `p` is invoked on the variable `true_friends`, and `"Charlie"` and `"Patricia"` will be placed into the second sub-array of 
=end