Abel - Phoenix, AZ - Tic Tac Toe bonus section

Advanced session -
not basic things
amount of engagement up to us
no expectations
way to get the most out of this session is to ask as many questions as I want
difficult questions in CodeWars and LS
in that case, question tonight, is it that different?
great place to talk/ask questions, get feedback

Common Mistakes
-not enough time spent parsing the problem
-assumptions about the solution
-no high-level algorithm
-fuzzy low-level algorithm
- lack of flexibility
- lack of syntax fluency

You wake up at the control board of a submarine. In front of you is a panel of buttons and a note left by the previous captain: "Use the buttons to set the ship's depth, and aim for as close to _ leagues as possible -- but definitely don't go higher! You can select only one *set* of buttons, and together they determine the depth. Last time I pressed 2 buttons, and I was aiming for 7 leagues."

The buttons in front of you are as follows:
2
3
1
2
4
3

This is an example of a more difficult problem that I might see in a job interview for a more technical engineering job.  Understanding what the problem is asking, coming up with own test cases.  

Write a method that takes an array of consecutive letters as input and returns the missing letter.
  - can think we understand it 
  - what's the point of these first couple sections?
   - early lessons don't necessitate their use
  - working on hard problems as a software engineer, these problems will heavily rely on PEDAC.
  - we might be making assumptions
  - we have to see the test cases
  # p determine_missing_letter(['a','b','c','d','f']) == 'e' 
# p determine_missing_letter(['O','Q','R','S']) == 'P'
# p determine_missing_letter(["a","b","c","d","f"]) == "e"
# p determine_missing_letter(["O","Q","R","S"]) == "P"
  to make sure I understand the problems, the edge cases.
  break down the problem so we understand it constituent parts.
  the problem statement is not enough
  Writing out explicit rules, going thru the test cases to find the implicit rules that we must account for when we find the solution.

Problems can appear one way, or there is an edge case in there that might throw a kink in it. Strong assumptions - write them down, scratchpad section.  Don't use this as an excuse to forsake PEDAC.

High level algorithm is an eagle's eye view of the problem.

After I've broken down a problem, algortihm is a blank page moment.  A solution, algorithm with a general idea of what I'm going to work with.  Choose the one that is most efficient or works best.  

Different ways to do this.  Make the higher level algorithm the header of the lower level algorithm, and break each part into detail. 

Not detailed enough and people delay the hard parts of the solution until we're coding.

The more I work with PEDAC, the more I will know when i am hitting the right level of detail.  Is this about right?  This is something I will become more aware of as I practice more.

Being flexible enough to update the algorithm so that it acts as a good guide moving forward.  Make sure keeping it up to date just in case we need to reference it.  Should be as useful to me as possible.  Just has to work for me. And mitigates hack and slash as much as possible.  Shows a good understanding of Ruby.  Developing algorithm.

Good way to build syntax fluency. mix of new problems and problems I have done before.  THere is some consideration.  I don't know exactly how I did it.  Building the algo and the PEDAC is not as hard as it was the first time. Building muscle memory.  Recommend being comfortable buidling different iteration methods.  A question will always require one iteration or more.  

Working with index and things like while iterating through collections. All sorts of methods for discovery along the way to make life easier.

If the algo is not a good guide and not uing it anymore, I am on my own.  It's not like you can't go back to the algo. 

Adding an item to the algorithm if it helps me.  The fuzziness has to do with how it is in my mind.

In an interview, we want to see the thought process.  If the algo is too short, then we aren't getting much out of it.

Find all substrings:
https://stackoverflow.com/questions/4508096/what-is-the-best-way-to-split-a-string-to-get-all-the-substrings-by-ruby

# p submarinedepth([2, 3, 1, 2, 4, 3], 7)

Given an array of n positive integers and a positive integer, find the minimal length of a contiguous subarray for which the sum>= integer.



Requirements: 

PEDAC template - with headers set out

how to capture sub-array range?  


# Given an array of n positive integers and a positive integer, find the minimal length of a contiguous subarray for which the sum >= integer.

# p minSubLength([2, 3, 1, 2, 4, 3], 7) == 2
# p minSubLength([1, 10, 5, 2, 7], 9) == 1
# p minSubLength([1, 11, 100, 1, 0, 200, 3, 2, 1, 250], 280) == 4
# p minSubLength([1, 2, 4], 8) == 0

=begin RICHARD
# PEDAC
# Problem:
# - Input: Array
# - Output: Integer
# - Rules:
#   - Explicit:
#     - method takes two arguments, an array and an integer
#     - method returns an integer
#       - value is equal to the minimum length of a contiguous subarray for which the sum
#         is greater than or equal to the input integer 
#   - Implicit:
#     - input array is non-empty 
#     - if there is no contigious pair that sums to the integer -> return 0
#
# Examples:
# - Test Case 1:
#   - Input: [1, 2, 3] and 5
#   - Output: 2
#     - contiguous sub-arrays and sums:
#       - 1 -> 1
#       - 1, 2 -> 3
#       - 1, 2, 3 -> 6
#       - 2 -> 2
#       - 2, 3 -> 5 <- target value
#       - 3 -> 3
#
# Data Structure:
# - Array - input argument
# - Integer - return value 
# - Array - to hold all subarrays from input array 
# - Hash:
#   - key: each subarray
#   - value: the sum of the subarray
#
# Algorithm:
# - create a method that takes two arguments
#   - Array
#   - Integer
# - find all contigious arrays of numbers in input array
#   - use a helper method:
#     - create a method that takes one argument, an array
#     - create an array to hold all contiguous subarrays
#     - iterate through each value in the array
#     - for each value:
#       - add the current value as a subarray into the array holding all subarrays
#       - add the next value in the array to the current value to form a subarray
#       - add the current subarray to the array of all subarrays
#       - keep adding the next value in the array to the current value to form 
#         each subarray until we hit the last value
#     - return the array of all subarrays
# - find the sum of each contigious array
#   - call Array#sum
# - create a hash to hold each subarray and their sums:
#   - key: contigious array
#   - values: sum
# - select the arrays that are equal to the sum 
#   - call Hash#select and pass in the criteria of the value equal to the target sum 
#
# Code:

# p minSubLength([2, 3, 1, 2, 4, 3], 7) == 2
# p minSubLength([1, 10, 5, 2, 7], 9) == 1
# p minSubLength([1, 11, 100, 1, 0, 200, 3, 2, 1, 250], 280) == 4
# p minSubLength([1, 2, 4], 8) == 0

=end

=begin JESSE
Problem:
input:
  - array of integers, representing buttons and depths
  - positive integer, target depth
output: integer, representing length of shortest possible array of buttons pressed 
rules: output subarray total count must add up to target depth
  - subarray must be a contiguous section of the input array
  - integers are always positive in the given Array
  - output result can be zero, if no option is available
  
Examples:
([1, 2, 3, 4], 3) == 1
1 => false 
2 => false 
3 => true, return [3], and the count is 1

([1, 2, 3, 3], 6) == 2
1 => false 
2 => false 
3 => false 
3 => false 
1, 2 => false 
2, 3 => false 
3, 3 => true, return [3, 3], and the count is 2

Data Structure:
input: array of integers
input 2: integer, target Integer
intermediate: subarry to hold integers which add up to the target integer

Algorithm:
  - iterate through given array with an index parameter starting at 0, ending at array size
    
    - nested iteration going over the array as well 
      - 
    - increment a size variable by 1 each iteration: the subarray range size
     - each iteration compare subarray range (0..size) totals up to the target Integer
      - if total = target, return the current size iteration integer
      
=end

=begin ABEL
# Input  -- array of integers, target depth
# output - integer respresenting min total need 


# rule: 
  positive integers 
  method takes an argumemnt with two parameters(array & target)
    same method returns an integer of minimum input needed 

    # data structure :
    array of integers
    sub array holding integers that add up to target
    
    #Examples
    # p minSubLength([2, 3, 1, 2, 4, 3], 7) == 2
# p minSubLength([1, 10, 5, 2, 7], 9) == 1
# p minSubLength([1, 11, 100, 1, 0, 200, 3, 2, 1, 250], 280) == 4
# p minSubLength([1, 2, 4], 8) == 0


    input: [4, 5, 6, 9] , 9
    output: 2?
    
    input: [1, 2, 5] 5
    output: 1?

    #algorithm  
      create empty array 
      create empty var
      iterate over array\
      keep track of index
      compare current index value to next index value
        if it greater than or equal to target
          push to sub array 
          count size of new array 
          return count with integer

=end

=begin AMY
input: array, target
output: integer

Goal: find the minimal length of a continuous subarray that is next to its counterparts for which the sum of these parts is greater than or equal to the given integer

Requirements: 
- array is made of positive integers
- minimal length of subarray to be greater than or equal to the given integer
- if the array's elements' sum is less than the integer, return 0.

E:
minSubLength([2, 3, 1, 2, 4, 3], 7) == 2 => 3 + 4 = 7

Test:
[1, 2, 4], 8
1 -> 1
1 + 2 -> 3
1 + 2 + 4 -> 7
1 + 4 -> 5
none of these equal 8, so return 0

D: array/integer => integer

A: initialize empty output_array to store
intialize sum variable to 0
iterate over the array
  - starting at index 0 compare the integer to the target integer argument
    IF integer >= target integer
      add element to empty array
      return output array
    ELSE integer is less than target integer
      add integer to sum variable
      - 

    
push subarray that matches the integer argument with the shortest length into the output_array

-------------------- Scratchpad
arr.each do |sub_arr| -> 
sub_arr
=end

=begin
I have interviewed five software engineering candidates over the past two weeks, including folks with grad degrees in computer science/ex-FAANG with 7+ years of experience. All five were jointly rejected by myself and a co-interviewer either because the candidates jumped straight into implementation and ended up with bugs during testing or unhandled edge cases, and/or their oral-written communication was poor.

So, for those folks who are 'PEDACing' for the first few times:
1) Train your problem solving muscles to start with PEDAC by default (or some equivalent thereof);
2) Get comfortable talking through problems out loud, not just typing silently.

Can't stress enough that PEDAC isn't an arbitrary heuristic meant for getting through the curriculum or 109/129 oral assessments. PEDAC works, especially under pressure.

- Sam Swire (Check) LS alum
=end

Getting a study group/partner and meeting regularly to go over all this stuff.  